I got one of these. And so in today's
episode, I'm going to tell you exactly
how I gained 100,000 subscribers on
YouTube and how you can do the same.
[music] I would not consider myself a
YouTube expert. My forte is really
Instagram, but I've learned a lot about
YouTube in the last 3 years of growing
this channel and really in the last 15
plus years of being on YouTube. More
about that story later. And so today,
I'm going to spill the beans. I'm going
to spill the tea and give you the four
ingredients that are necessary to reach
100,000 subscribers on YouTube. Because
in my opinion, and this might be a
controversial take, this might not be
what you expected me to say as a guy who
loves Instagram and focuses all of their
time on Instagram, I believe that
YouTube is the most rewarding platform.
I also want to begin by saying it is
absolutely not too late to grow on
YouTube. I actually started this channel
at the very end of 2022 after the COVID
boom and of course more than a decade
after YouTube started as a whole. So, it
is absolutely not too late to grow.
However, almost everyone would agree it
is the hardest platform to grow on. When
you think about Tik Tok, Instagram,
Snapchat, YouTube, and all the other
social media apps, most people don't
even consider YouTube a social media to
begin with. And I think I might agree
with that statement. But regardless of
how you think of it, everyone agrees it
is the toughest to grow on. It takes the
most time, energy, and effort. And
that's part of the reason that I think
it's the most rewarding. But I also
think that's part of the reason that so
many people fail and so many people burn
out. For example, my journey on Tik Tok
was the polar opposite of my journey on
YouTube. I started on Tik Tok at the
very beginning of 2019, which was far
before most people really caught wind of
the app and joined. But I posted a few
silly dancing videos when I was a
college football player, and I blew up
and gained like 300,000 followers on Tik
Tok in about a week's time. It was
absolutely insane. The same cannot be
said on YouTube. on YouTube. Like I
mentioned a moment ago, I started this
channel at the end of 2022 and I just
hit 100,000 subscribers in April of
2026. And not to mention, I would have
what I would consider a little bit of a
leg up over a lot of other YouTube
channels that might be starting today.
And so I don't say any of this to scare
you. Again, I want to say that it is
possible. It is absolutely doable to
grow on YouTube. And I'm about to walk
you through the four key elements in
doing so. But I also want your
expectations to be in the right place.
And I want you to be ready that if you
want to grow on YouTube, you need to
commit for the long haul. But let's get
into it. The four ingredients that we
are going to be covering today are
number one, the channel setup, number
two, the gear, number three, the team,
and number four, most importantly, the
content. Let's begin with the channel
setup. Just like on Instagram, you need
to optimize your profile. Just like if
you had a physical location business,
you want to make sure that your
storefront is set up for customers to be
able to come inside and find what
they're looking for. You want to make
sure that your YouTube channel is set up
correctly as well. And that starts first
and foremost with a clear niche or a
direction or a topic that your channel
is going to take. And I absolutely
believe that it is necessary to have a
niche if you want to grow on YouTube.
Now, you can grow without one, but it's
going to be much slower. And I also
think that you don't have to necessarily
have it predetermined before you post
your first video. I think that a lot of
people will find their niche over time
as they're kind of posting about
different topics and experimenting.
However, if you don't eventually find
your topic or your niche or your focus,
you're always going to struggle to grow.
And I would say that without a clear
niche, you will never reach 100,000
subscribers. Now, there are exceptions,
but that's my belief. And the way I
define niche is essentially the who and
the what. Who is your target audience?
And what are you going to be posting
about? Ideally, you should know both of
those things and have them clear in your
mind before you truly start trying to
grow on YouTube because they're going to
influence who finds your page, how you
format your videos, what you say, what
you don't say, the topics you cover, and
so much more. But then besides that,
getting into the actual nitty-gritty of
setting up your channel, something that
I learned, I think far too late in the
process, I actually learned it at VidCon
last year in 2025, is that your banner
on your YouTube channel should be
something that's super short, concise,
and something that is essentially a call
to action. If you look at my channel
banner now, it just has my big yellow
branding, and it says the word
subscribe. You can't really get much
shorter of a call to action there. If
you look at Mr. beasts. It says,
"Subscribe for a cookie." And then
there's a cookie emoji. If you look at
Gary Ve's, it says his name, Gary Vee,
and then it says video and shorts every
day. If you look at Wolfie VGC, my
favorite Pokémon content creator and the
goat of VGC, his channel art is really
just a artwork. It's It's not
necessarily like this complex
illustration. It's just an artwork and
his channel logo. If you look at
everyone's favorite hustle culture bro,
Alex Hermoszi, his channel artwork just
has a photo of himself. It has the two
companies that he has founded and it has
his books. I would actually argue that
Alex's is a little bit more complicated
than I would recommend. But really the
takeaway here is that you shouldn't
spend a lot of time, energy, and effort
designing this high graphic design,
highly illustrated banner when really it
should just be a short call to action.
The third element of your channel setup
is an attentiongrabbing profile picture.
This is just like on Instagram. If
you're building your YouTube around a
personal brand, then it should be your
face. As you can see, my YouTube profile
picture is my face. If you're building
more of a business brand on YouTube,
then you would want your logo to be your
profile picture. But I want you to make
sure that your logo is actually
formatted to be a profile picture. For
example, Google uses just the G as their
profile picture rather than the fully
spelled out word Google because that
just wouldn't make sense as a profile
picture. And then finally, your bio's
intro. Now, I think a lot of times
people overthink their bio on YouTube
and they spend too much time crafting it
when really what matters is just those
first few words because everything else
is going to be cut off and most people
are probably not going to read your full
bio. So, I updated mine again after
attending VidCon 2025. So, mine now just
says no BS Instagram strategy. Mr. Beast
simply repeats the same thing that is in
his header that says subscribe for a
cookie. Gary V's is a little bit more
traditional where it describes a little
bit about him and Alex Hermoszy's is the
same listing off the companies that he
has founded and Wolfie VGC's simply says
greatest Pokémon player of all time.
Basically, this is your elevator pitch,
your snapshot, and the first
introduction that many people are going
to have to potentially subscribing to
your channel. Now, let's talk about the
gear. And by the way, if you go to my
channel and you sort videos by oldest
first, you can see my very first
uploads, you can find the very first
video from back on October 30th, 2022.
But when I first got started, I'm pretty
sure that first ever video was filmed on
just my phone. And while I had this
microphone in front of my face, if you
listen to the audio, it's pretty clear
to me that I wasn't actually using this
microphone. I was probably just using my
phone's built-in microphone. So, it
doesn't sound so great. Also, when I
first got started, I don't think I used
any third-party lighting. I just kind of
used the natural lighting from the
windows in my office. And believe it or
not, don't crucify me for this. My first
ever YouTube video was edited by yours
truly on iMovie. Now, if you're watching
this video, maybe you haven't even
gotten started on YouTube yet. And so,
if that's the case, I want to encourage
you to just use your phone. If you do
want to add a piece of equipment or you
do have a little bit of a budget to
spend, the first piece of equipment that
I would recommend is not lighting, nor
is it even a better camera. It's
actually audio quality. And I believe
this because as you're watching this
right now, watch what happens if I make
the video quality really poor, but I
leave the audio quality high. You can
still watch this content. It might not
be your favorite channel. It might not
be your favorite video, but you can
still keep watching. But now, watch what
happens when the video quality is great,
the video quality is 4K, and the audio
quality has gone down the drain. It
makes a really big difference, and it
makes the video almost unwatchable. The
reality is most smartphones nowaday can
shoot in 4K. So that's probably good
enough quality to get you through at
least your first dozen, if not your
first couple hundred uploads and then as
you start to monetize your channel or
make more money or whatever, then you
can reinvest into the channel and
purchase a better camera. But I really
think your phone is good enough to get
started. Now, currently, at the time of
recording this, I've continued to add
little pieces to my tech stack, if you
will, to improve my setup. So, just so
you know, the camera that I'm currently
recording on is a Sony ZV E10. My backup
camera is actually just an old iPhone
still. My microphone is called a Sure
SM7B, which its claim to fame is that it
was the same mic that Michael Jackson
used to record Thriller. And the
microphone is actually plugged directly
into the camera through this little
device, which is just battery powered.
It's called the Coma AD3 by Linkflex.
And what I love about it is that it's a
very compact system, so it's easy for me
to travel with my setup. It's easy to
use. When I first got started with
podcasting, I had like this full studio
setup where I had like all these little
dials and adjustments and I was like,
I'm never actually adjusting anything
and so why don't I just simplify this?
And I want to give a shout out to Omar
Elakori who actually gifted this to me
when we did a podcast interview a few
years ago and he was like, dude, why are
you not using a professional microphone?
And I was like, well, cuz I have no way
to connect it to my camera. I have no
way to connect it to my phone. And so,
he just gifted me this. So, shout out to
you, Omar. And then in terms of my
lighting setup, I'm still not totally in
love with my lighting setup in this
office. I feel like I could be a little
bit more professional. I have what's
called a soft box right here behind the
camera and it's made by a company called
Newer. And this operates as my fill
light. And you can think of your fill
light as kind of like the main light
source on your face or on the subject.
And then my key light, which is kind of
like your secondary lighting source, is
actually just my office's window over
here. I have in the past used a actual
lighting source here, but I feel like
it's too much bright light or sometimes
if I do use a secondary light, if I'm
filming at like night, then I will just
turn down that secondary light so it's
not so bright on this side of my face.
And the main source of light is this
fill light right here. And then I have
this light behind me which kind of acts
as a hair light and it also kind of just
acts as some ambient light in the room.
I also have these uh lamps, these little
lights that were built into my office.
Shout out to my wife Taye and our
interior designer Caroline who kind of
planned what my whole office space would
look like. And this little light that's
behind me is actually just like a $5
light off of Amazon that casts different
hues onto the wall so I could make it
pink or blue or whatever I want. But I
try to usually just make it gold so that
it matches those lights. Back in 2016
when I started my first real online
business, I remember that my head was
filled with so many whatifs. What if no
one buys this? What if I'm an impostor?
What if there's no market? What if I
can't sell? What if? What if? What if?
What if this is all just a big waste of
time and I'm just banging my head
against the wall? But what I wish
someone told me back then is just like
you can imagine all the negative
whatifs, there are just as many, if not
more, positive whatifs. What if this
works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive whatifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world like Gym Shark to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock awardwinning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those
whatifs into with Shopify today. Sign up
for your $1 per month trial at
shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's sh o p i f.comt
r ibe. But again, all of this is a
little bit advanced and not necessary
when you're first getting started. I
will say that none of this is also super
expensive. Like I just said, that
light's like $5. I think my box light is
like maybe 50 bucks. The most expensive
part of my entire tech stack is
definitely my camera itself, which is a
couple hundred. And this microphone is a
couple hundred as well. But like I've
said, you don't need any of this when
you are first getting started. Also,
when I first got started, like I told
you, I edited my first video myself on
iMovie. I now have a professional
editor. Shout out to you, Kylie, who
edits my content. And I believe he uses
Adobe or maybe he uses Premiere Pro. I'm
not sure. Maybe Kylie, you can add an
editor's note right here as to what you
use, but he edits my content for me. So,
I don't even have to edit it myself.
Now, speaking of Kylie, that's a pretty
seamless segue into talking about the
team. It's almost like I planned it that
way in my notes. Let's talk about the
third ingredient of a successful YouTube
channel, a YouTube channel that gets the
silver play button, reaches 100k
subscribers, you can't do it alone. I
mean, sure, like, you could, but it
would probably end up being your
full-time job, or you'd have to get
really lucky. I would venture to bet
that if you interviewed a thousand
people who have 100,000 subscribers, 900
of them, if not 950, if not 990 of them,
have at least one other person on their
team. And they're not doing it alone.
Now, most people are doing it alone at
the start, as was I. But then, as we
have progressed, as the channel has
earned more income through Google
AdSense and through sponsorships, I have
reinvested into the channel and added
more team members. And the first one,
who I would argue is the most important
team member to add. First is the editor.
So, we've had a few different editors on
the channel over time. And after this
section where I tell you who is on my
team, I'll talk to you a little bit more
about hiring and kind of my thought
process for how to hire and what to look
for. But the first person we hired was
an editor. The second person that we
hired very soon after that was a
thumbnail designer. Fortunately, with AI
image generation tools, it's become much
faster and easier than ever before for a
graphic designer to create thumbnails
for you at scale, which is pretty
awesome. The third team member we added
was our channel manager. Shout out to
you, Kristen. Who basically keeps the
channel running smoothly, make sure that
everything is uploaded when it should be
uploaded, that it's scheduled, make sure
that all of the titles that I've come up
with are actually inserted. the
descriptions are written, make sure that
everything goes live when it's supposed
to and it has the right sponsorships in
it, and just kind of make sure that the
overall health of the channel is doing
well. And then the fourth and final team
member that we've added relatively
recently is a sponsorships manager. Now,
I have heard your feedback and a few of
you who have brought up like, hey,
having three sponsorships in a single
YouTube video is a little bit much. And
I absolutely hear you on that. And so, I
just want to let you know that going
forward, we will have no more than two
sponsorships on each episode. And also,
I really appreciate your feedback
because even though I have 800,000
followers on Instagram and 100K
subscribers here on YouTube, I still
read pretty much every single comment on
every single YouTube video. So, your
feedback definitely goes a long way and
I take it into consideration. Even if
it's the most negative, harmful, cussing
me out criticism ever, I at least
consider it to a certain degree. Now
that we've talked about who is on my
team, I want to give you some tips for
hiring your own team. Number one, it is
always going to feel scary. I think that
if you get to the point where you're
like, "This isn't scary anymore. It's
I'm just desperate. Like, I need help. I
need someone on my team." That's not a
very good place to be in. Now, I know
some of you might be in that place right
now. But usually, I would recommend
hiring someone before you feel ready or
before you feel not scared because it's
likely that you're never going to feel
ready and you're never going to feel not
scared until it's too late. So, hire
someone as soon as you have the capital,
as soon as you have the means, as soon
as you have the option to do so.
consider hiring someone. The second
thing I want to say is that you can
start with the less expensive option.
Like you don't have to go allin when you
first start your channel and hire like a
$30,000 a month YouTube editor. I'm sure
that those exist somewhere out there.
But when you're first getting started,
you can use inexpensive AI tools. For
example, a tool that I've been using a
lot recently that we've actually built
into our workflow is called Gling AI.
And it's a tool that now Kylie, our
editor, uses for the rough cut.
Basically, when this whole file is done
being uploaded and created, when I'm
done recording the episode, we need
someone to go through and kind of just
do the mindless task of cutting out the
bad takes, removing the filler words and
all of that. And that's something that
again, it doesn't require taste or
creativity or originality. That's
something that is very robotic, right?
And so, we now have a robot doing that.
We have Gling AI going through the video
and automatically creating that rough
cut, which saves Kylie time so that he
can then spend more time in his zone of
genius as an editor, as someone who can
do motion graphics and who can have
taste and who can make these creative
decisions and strategy. He can spend
more time on that because he doesn't
have to spend as much time on the rough
cut. But like I said, Gling is a
relatively inexpensive tool. If you are
opposed to using a tool like Gling or
you don't want to use AI, you could also
hire a virtual staff member who's maybe
from a country where the cost of living
is lower and so you're paying them
something that would be far below
minimum wage in the United States, but
in their country that's actually a great
living wage because of the conversion
rate. Additionally, you could consider
hiring someone who's maybe like a new
editor, someone who's just getting
started, a beginner, because sure, they
might not be like pro. They might not be
like uh, you know, cinematic Hollywood
level editor, but because they're just
getting started, their rates are a
little bit lower, and so they get the
benefit of experience from working with
your channel, and you get the benefit of
passing off your editing so that someone
else can do it, and you can spend more
time doing what only you can do, which
is coming up with the topics, filming
the videos, and actually creating the
content. The third tip that I want to
give you for hiring someone is to just
start with a 30-day trial period. Just
like almost any tool that you sign up
for nowadays has a 30-day free trial.
You can do the same with your editor.
And I'm not saying that you're not going
to pay the person for 30 days. You're
going to pay them for their work. But
you're going to go into it with the
expectation communicated to your editor
that, hey, this is just a test project.
This is just a trial run to see if they
like working with you and if you like
working with them. That makes it a lot
easier at the end of 30 days to say
like, "Yeah, uh, you know, I think we're
just not going to continue working
together." Whether that's because you
can't afford them, you don't like their
work, or whatever it may be. But it just
gives you that out and it makes it so
much less pressure. And it gives them
that out as well. So that if at the end
of 30 days it's not what they expected,
they can't meet your demands, whatever
it may be, they have an easy out as
well. And then my fourth and final tip
for hiring people is pay people fairly.
Almost every person who I've talked to
who has had a rapidly growing channel,
which I don't consider my channel a
rapidly growing channel, but everyone
who I talked to who does, they all echo
the same sentiment, which is that they
actually don't get paid from their
channel revenue. They don't take a cut
of their YouTube. They reinvest all of
the AdSense and all of the sponsorship
dollars into better editors, better
graphic designers, or paying their
graphic designers and their thumbnail
creators and their editors and their
channel managers even higher so that
those people can create an even better
outcome. And so pay people fairly and
you'll get better work. If you try to be
cheap, if you try to cheat people, if
you try to undercut people and not pay
people what they're worth, you're going
to get really bad results and it's not
going to be a very sustainable business
model. With all of that being said, that
brings us to the fourth, final, and most
important ingredient for growing on
YouTube, which is the actual content
itself. Now, what I'm going to be
focusing on for this section is what we
typically think of as YouTube content.
Long- form, horizontal video, like
you're watching right now. YouTube
shorts are a whole another conversation.
YouTube Live is a whole another
conversation, and that's not something
that I've done a ton of on this channel,
and so it's not something that I feel uh
well equipped enough to talk about. So,
I'm really going to focus on what we do
well on this channel, which is a long-
form horizontal video like you're
watching right now. Content on YouTube
and the success or failure of your
channel is almost exclusively tied to
your packaging of your videos. Now, when
I say packaging, that essentially refers
to the thumbnail, the title, and the
first 60 seconds. And yes, retention
matters. Yes, the quality of the video
as a whole matters. Yes, the better, the
more engaging, the more invaluable your
content is overall, the more likely
people are to send it to each other and
to rewatch and to subscribe and to keep
coming back. But people won't ever click
on the video in the first place. They
won't even watch. You could have
Interstellar, one of my favorite movies
of all time, one of the most highly
rated science fiction movies, one of the
most highly rated movies of the 21st
century. You could have that as your
content, but if the title sucks, if the
thumbnail sucks, and if the first 60
seconds sucks, no one's going to get to
the rest of the content. So, with that
being said, let's talk about the three
different elements of the packaging.
First, the thumbnail. Six different tips
that I try to keep in mind when we are
designing or picking our thumbnails.
Number one is what's called the rule of
three. And the rule of three is
essentially that on your thumbnails, you
want to have no more than three
elements. If you clicked on this video,
hopefully there were only three elements
on the thumbnail or even less. If you
start to add more than three elements on
your thumbnail, it can become confusing,
less attentiongrabbing, or just less
likely to get the click. Speaking of
three, the second tip that I have for
you is to test three different
thumbnails. It's amazing that YouTube
gives us this option. But when you
upload your YouTube video, you can
actually put three different thumbnails.
And when you are putting those
thumbnails, this brings me into my third
tip. Experiment with different styles.
So, if you have three different
thumbnails, they shouldn't have the
exact same look, the exact same feel,
and just like one slight word variation.
Instead, you should have three
drastically different looking
thumbnails. And then after 48 or 72
hours, after a period of time, you'll be
able to see the results. And likely,
you'll have one clear-cut winner. And
then from there, you can iterate on that
winner. So, if one thumbnail is the
clear-cut winner, you could then create
slight variations to that one and retest
three new thumbnails that are again
variations of the proven winner. My
fourth tip for your thumbnails is to get
inspired by other industries. Some of my
best thumbnails on this channel have
been inspired by Pokémon creators who I
love or fitness creators who I love.
Often times there are people in other
industries who have great ideas for
thumbnails and you can get inspired by
those and apply them to whatever topic
or niche you've chosen. As someone who
cooks about 95% of their meals at home
and no that's not an exaggeration.
Usually the only meal that Tay and I eat
out each week is our sushi Saturday.
What we eat, what we prepare, it matters
a lot to us. And that's why I'm so
excited to introduce you to our newest
sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh allows
you to choose between more than 100
recipes every single week, including
cuisines from all around the world and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are high
protein recipes, which fires me up. And
it allows me to feel great because I
know that I'm eating wholesome
ingredients like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes.
And let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/bt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a freezing
knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Fifth, and this is more of a
general recommendation, and really all
of this is a general recommendation.
There are definitely people who have
success on YouTube with very crowded and
very organic looking almost like
photographs as their thumbnails. There's
people who have thumbnails that are very
busy and loud. There's people who have
thumbnails that are very minimal. Every
audience is different and every channel
is different. But again, these are
general recommendations to help you get
started. And the fifth recommendation
regarding your thumbnails is that
smoother skin, brighter colors, bolder
text is usually better. That's just
human nature, right? We're usually more
likely to have our eyes go to the thing
that pops off the page. And so if you
have brighter colors, if you have the
smoother skin, which I don't mean that
like you have to do a better skincare
routine. I mean like you can just use
like an editing effect to kind of smooth
out your skin a little bit. maybe make
your eyes a little bit more big or or
wide or you can show your teeth or
something like that. Those sorts of
things usually generate a higher
click-through rate. And the sixth tip
for your thumbnail, and this is one of
my favorite things that I've learned
over the last few years, is that your
thumbnail should not just repeat what
the title is. It should be complimentary
to the title. It should talk to the
title. It should interact with the
title. It should add to the title or
make someone curious to read what the
title is. Or if they just read the
title, it should make them then curious
to watch the video. And so instead of
just kind of repeating whatever the
title says in the actual thumbnail, see
if there's a way that they could
complement each other. Speaking of the
title, that's the second element of the
packaging that really matters. And my
tips for your title is number one, use a
tool. I like to use Vid IQ, but there
are lots of different tools out there
that can help you with title
optimization, scoring your title,
predicting whether or not it's a good
title that will actually get clicks and
searches. And speaking of searches, you
want to make sure to include SEO or
search engine optimized keywords in your
title because, and I can't believe we
haven't talked about this already,
YouTube is the world's second biggest
search engine behind Google. That means
that people are searching for things or
searching for videos like yours or
searching for businesses and topics like
yours on YouTube more than any place in
the world besides Google. And of course,
YouTube is owned by Google. And so, how
often are you googling something and
then a YouTube video is its first
result? probably all the time. And so
that's why you want to make sure that
your title is optimized, not just for
curiosity sake and to get people
interested in clicking, but also for
search engine optimization so that you
can show up in search results, get more
clicks, and thus get more views. Tip
number two for your titles and the
topics for your videos in general is to
look at what other people in your
industry are doing. Not just so that you
can get inspired and create your own
versions of those videos, but also so
that you can see what gaps are there in
the market. What is no one talking about
in your industry that you are uniquely
qualified to add your two cents on?
That's something that I like to do all
the time. And this might just be my own
personal thing, but when I'm doing title
research, when I'm doing video topic
planning, I try my best to never watch
my competitor's videos. And that's not
because like I'm a hater of theirs. I'm
a cheerleader. I'm a big fan of so many
of my competitors here on YouTube. But I
feel like if I watch their video, then
I'm too heavily influenced. And I'm
like, how do I make this my own? How do
I say it in my own way when what they
just said is in my head? So instead, I
might look at the title from someone
else in my industry and think, "Oh,
yeah, well, I could give my own tips
about that topic. Maybe some of my tips
are the same. Maybe all of them are the
same, but I have no idea because I
didn't watch their video. I'm not truly
stealing the content. I'm just getting
inspired by whatever topic it is that
they're covering and then I'm making it
my own." And my third tip for your title
is to remember the drunk grandma rule.
If your title could not be understood by
a drunk grandma, then it's probably too
complex. It probably needs to be
simplified or dumbed down so that more
people can understand what the title is
before they click on the video. And then
speaking of when they do click on the
video, the third piece of the packaging
that most people forget about is those
first 60 seconds. Just like on
Instagram, we harp on the hook. The
hook, the hook, the beginning of your
reel. It's so important. The beginning
of your YouTube video is very important
as well. And there are a few different
techniques here. You could repeat the
title at the beginning of your video.
You could add to your title. You can be
aware that, hey, someone just clicked on
a video after reading the title. So
maybe I'm going to reference the title
in my hook. But essentially, your video
needs to begin with some sort of hook
that creates curiosity, that creates
interest to keep watching. Maybe it's
going to make a promise as to what
they're going to learn in the video,
like I did at the beginning of my video
today. Maybe you're going to start with
an interesting moment and then you're
going to cut away from that moment and
come back to it. Maybe the first 60
seconds are going to be whatever is in
the thumbnail. And then you're going to
go back previously in the story and kind
of walk us through how did we get to
this climax most exciting moment.
Essentially, think about the audience.
Think about the viewer. They just
clicked on this video and so what do
they need to hear to stick around until
the end of the video? Speaking of a
bonus tip for your content, which this
is such a hypocritical thing to say
because I'm saying it right now at the
end of this episode, ask people to
subscribe. If you want more subscribers,
remind them to subscribe. And there's
different ways that you can do this.
There's different ways that you can
incentivize this. But most people will
tell you if you put it at the beginning
of your video, like right after the
hook, you are going to get way more
subscribers. Don't wait until the end of
the video like this silly goose just
did. That's a horrible example. Do not
learn from me on this one. Do what I
say. Don't do what I do. And ask people
to subscribe at the beginning of your
video, not at the very end. Now, the
final thing I'll say about your content
itself is what I have found to be most
helpful and most effective in growing
the channel and getting more views is to
start with the title and or the
thumbnail or at least start with the
topic of the video, then figure out the
title and the thumbnail and then plan
out the video. I think far too often
people will just hit record, which I'm a
big fan of, like just hit record, you
know, start sloppy, start messy, start
raw, but I think far too often people
will just kind of hit record. They'll
record about a thing that they planned
on talking about or they'll make their
vlog or whatever it may be. And then
they'll think, okay, well, what's a
creative title that I could add to this
video or what's a creative thumbnail
that I could use to make people
interested in this topic? And I actually
find it's more effective to start with
the title and the thumbnail or at least
start with the topic. Create those
things and then plan out what is
actually going to be in the script or
what it is that you're actually going to
cover in the video. And with all of that
being said, I want to reiterate what I
said earlier, which is that it takes
time to grow on YouTube. It took me
three and a half years to reach 100,000
subscribers on YouTube. And I'm very
proud of that. I'm very happy and I'm
very thankful for all of you who are
subscribed to this podcast. But it took
a long time. And it took a long time
despite having a co-host for the
majority of those three and a half years
who was my mom who herself has over a
million followers on Facebook, couple
hundred thousand on Tik Tok, couple
hundred thousand on Instagram. She's got
a massive audience that also was despite
this podcast existing for an entire
decade before going on YouTube. Believe
it or not, we are actually almost on our
900th episode of this podcast, but only
about 200 or so are actually on YouTube.
And so we have a massive listener base
and subscriber base over on audio only
over on podcast who theoretically could
have all come over here to the YouTube
channel. Not to mention I also have a
large audience myself. I have a lot of
followers on Instagram. And despite all
of that, it still took 3 and 1/2 years
to reach 100,000 subscribers. And so
again, it takes time. I want you to
commit. Commit to the long haul because
YouTube is the most rewarding platform.
It's the most rewarding monetarily in
terms of pay-per-view. It's the most
rewarding in terms of brand deals.
Brands tend to pay more for a YouTube
channel that has 100,000 subscribers
than an Instagram that has 100,000
followers. It's also the most rewarding
in terms of social credibility, right?
People are YouTubers. Sure, people are
Tik Tockers and Instagrammers, but
YouTuber is a much more uh credible
career. It's something that is actually
one of the fastest growing careers that
young kids in Gen Z and Gen Alpha say
that they want to be when they grow up.
And so, it's got that social
credibility. I have nearly 900,000
followers on Instagram and my friends
yawn at that. But when I hit 100,000
subscribers on YouTube, my friends
celebrated me. They sent me videos and
congratulations. And so, again, it just
has that social credibility. And I think
the reason for that is that YouTube more
than any other platform is merit-based.
And I don't mean to poo poo any other
platform. Again, I flipping love
Instagram, but you can have a couple
videos go viral on Instagram and get a
couple hundred thousand followers. Same
is true on Tik Tok, but the same is not
true on YouTube. It's very, very
unlikely that one of your first few
videos is going to go viral. And even if
it does, it's very unlikely that that
viral YouTube video, that singular viral
video, is going to blow up your channel
and give you a couple hundred thousand
subscribers. That's just not how it
works. People are very withholding of
who they subscribe to on YouTube.
They're very picky and choosy about who
they spend their time with and who they
decide to subscribe to or not on
YouTube. I can't tell you how many
people watch my episodes every single
week, but still don't subscribe. It's a
very merit-based algorithm. If you make
good content, if your thumbnails are
effective, if your titles are optimized,
and people are clicking and watching and
enjoying your content, you will grow. If
not, well, then you need to figure out
how you can improve those things so that
you can see growth. YouTube more than
any other platform is about quality over
quantity. It takes a lot of quantity to
grow. It takes a lot of time, energy,
and effort. But you will never grow
unless the quality is there. And so I
want to encourage you to focus on
continually improving your content,
continually making your videos stronger,
better editing, better thumbnails, more
value. And the way that you're going to
do that is you're going to just press
post. Just like I recommend on
Instagram, just press post. That's what
I want you to do on YouTube. And so even
though I've given you a lot of tips and
strategies and ideas to think about
today, I want you to believe in yourself
to just press post and do not stop.
Because something that I mentioned at
the very beginning today that I told you
we would come back to is the numerous
times that I have started on YouTube in
the past. When I was a little kid, I
posted my first YouTube video in like
2009 maybe. And then after that, I had a
basketball trick shots channel that was
around for like 2 years where we would
do regular uploads of me doing dude
perfect style basketball trick shots.
And then when I was in college, I tried
to start another YouTube channel and I
stuck with it for a few months and then
I burnt out and I kind of gave up
because I just wasn't seeing the return
on investment. And it wasn't until the
end of 2022 when I decided I am doing
this. I am going to build support
systems. I'm going to build automations.
I'm going to go allin on YouTube. I'm
going to continue to reinvest and I'm
going to commit to this channel that I
finally saw the growth. I finally saw
the results. And like I've said a
million times, it was not overnight.
It's taken a long time. It's taken a lot
of effort, but it has absolutely been
worth it. And so when people ask me what
my biggest regret is in business, what
is my biggest regret in my content
creation career, it is not taking
YouTube seriously earlier. Thank you so
much for watching and as always, happy
listening.
[music]
>> [music]